`SuperSelect` web docs (HDS-3222) (#2026)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/form/super-select/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

## Usage

### When to use

- When the list of options is large and search is required to help filter the list.

> - When multiple selections are made and displayed as a group.

Author: Grouping is available in both.

> - When multiple selections are made and displayed as a group.

Reviewer: Added it to another line as your request Heather

- When you require complex structured content to be displayed within the list (and trigger).

### When not to use

- To display a list of links (or buttons) in a menu, consider the [HDS Dropdown](/components/dropdown) component instead.

> - A list of options 5 or less, consider the [HDS Select](/components/form/select) form element.

Reviewer: Reworded to say for a simple list consider using this component

> - A list of options 5 or less, consider the [HDS Select](/components/form/select) form element.

Reviewer: Changed this to say "When a simple list is displayed, consider the HDS Select form element."

> - A list of options 5 or less, consider the [HDS Select](/components/form/select) form element.

Author: outdated

- As a means to filter an array of objects within a data set; e.g., when presented in a tabular format or list. Instead, consider other filtering patterns.

> ## Variants

Author: Replied here: https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/pull/2026#discussion_r1568208185

Let me know what you think and I can updates wording within the "Code" tab too to match.

> ## Variants

Reviewer: Calling this component instead of variant (as per the linked comment thread)

### Single
Selection is limited to a single list item.

> ![Single selection example with list open](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-variant-text.png =504x*)

Reviewer: Saying "..limited to a single list item with structured content."

### Multiple
Multiple selections can be made within the list.

![Multiple selection example with list open](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-multiple-variant.png =504x*)

> ## Trigger default states

Reviewer: Naming this "trigger value states"

> **Empty**

Author: @majedelass Is this text meant to appear on its own line? Because in the rendered site it's appearing inline with the text following it. (Same with the other similar examples here.)

<img width="460" alt="image" src="https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/assets/108769823/75e0deec-5925-4676-9c52-02d46aa7e64e">

Reviewer: This was previously structured like this, but to reduce the side car size, this was removed and made into bold only.

The default option, where the trigger is empty, showing nothing selected.

![Showing an empty trigger, indicating to the user there is no option selected yet](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-trigger-empty.png =399x*)

**Placeholder text**

> Placeholder text was added to the trigger, which helps the user understand additional context, but is not reliant on this information to carry out a task.

Author: ```suggestion
Placeholder text can be added to the trigger to provide the user additional helpful context. However this information should not be required for them carry out a task.
```

![Showing placeholder text inside of the trigger, still indicating no selection is made, but with some additional guidance](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-trigger-placeholder-text.png =399x*)

> **Populated**

Reviewer: Naming this "filled"

The trigger shows information populated, and has an option pre-selected before user interaction.

> ![Showing preselected options in both a single and multiple variant. This helps show something has been preselected previously and the user can update their options](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-trigger-filled.png =399x*)

Reviewer: Done.

> ## Before and after options

Reviewer: Updated to add space after headings. I made sure not to use "custom content" because search or a footer is a viable option in both scenarios

> ## Before and after options

Reviewer 2: FWIW, VS Code has a nice markdown linter that will auto-fix a lot of the markdown issues. Definitely recommend!

The before and after options are areas that sit above and below the list respectively, independent from the list’s overflow. They allow for either predefined components (like search) or custom content to occupy these spaces.

### BeforeOptions

> BeforeOptions allows for one of two options to be displayed at a given time: search or custom content. These options are the same between both single and multiple variants.

Author: ```suggestion
BeforeOptions allows for either a search field or custom content to be displayed before the options list.
```

Author: Since "Single" and "Multiple" here refer explicitly to the HDS components I think both should be capitalized.

(@jorytindall @heatherlarsen @andrew-hashicorp could any of you confirm that this is correct?)

#### Search
If enabled, allows the user to search by filtering the results based on the query.

![Search enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-before-options-search.png =836x*)

> ##### Search to add behavior

Author: @majedelass Do you have a link explaining this? I searched the API docs but wasn't able to find it.

https://ember-power-select.com/docs/api-reference

Author: Or is this a custom feature we need to implement?

Reviewer: No this is already part of the PowerSelect in `beforeOptionsComponent` - we're just standardizing the appearance where it'll always be present in the list.

Author: Update: We discussed more in our sync meeting. It's actually a plugin feature that we determined was out of scope for the initial SuperSelect release.

> If enabled, searched terms can be added to the list. This feature is only applicable to the multiple variant.

Author: Outdated. "Search to add" isn't a part of the regular Ember PowerSelect components but is a separate plugin. We determined the it is out of scope for the initial release. (So this section was removed.)

![Showing the search to add behavior in the multiple variant of SuperSelect](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-multi-flow-search-to-add.png =836x*)

#### CustomContent

> If enabled, yielded content will occupy this space.

Reviewer: Changing this to say "custom content" to standardize it across the board.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-before-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

!!! Dont

> We recommend against placing heavy UI elements in the custom content as it can draw attention away from the list options and will only be visible when the menu is open. Consider placing them in relation to the trigger.

Reviewer: Updated this to say:

"We recommend against placing heavy UI elements in custom content as it can draw attention away from the list options and will only be visible when the menu is open. Consider placing them in outside the list relative to the trigger for better visibility."

![Custom content enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-dont-visually-heavy.png =836x*)

!!!

### AfterOptions

> AfterOptions allows for one of two options to be displayed at a given time: footer or custom content. These options are the same between both single and multiple variants, however the footer has additional functions in the multiple variant.

Author: ```suggestion
AfterOptions allows for either an HDS standardized footer or custom content to be displayed after the options list. Applicable to both Single and Multiple variants, although the footer has additional functionality in the Multiple variant.
```

#### Footer
The footer appends below the list displaying content and/or buttons (depending on the variant) that provide additional context (or functions) to the list options.

##### Single variant
The footer defaults to visible and shows a total counter, which is customizable to fit context.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-variant-footer-with-counter.png =626x*)

##### Multiple variant
The afterOptions and footer default to visible. The buttons allow users to expedite the deselection process. The counter (selected / total) is optional. Either both or individually may be shown.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-multiple-variant-footer-without-counter.png =757x*)

> Show selected will change the list to display only selected list items while toggling the label of that button to “Show all."

Author: ```suggestion
“Show selected” will change the list to display only selected list items while toggling the label of the button to “Show all.”
```

![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button and how it toggles the list to only display selected list items](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-select-all.png =836x*)

> If show selected is used while no selections have been made, a string of text will let the user know that no selections have been made yet.

Author: ```suggestion
If “Show selected” is used when no selections have been made, a message will appear to let the user know.
```

> ![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button when no selections have been made yet.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-no-selections-select-all.png =836x*)

Reviewer 3: All of these examples have text burned into the images, I might recommend finding a way to abstract this out of the images just because it's easier to update that way. Potentially could use _emphasized_ formatting here, that's somewhat common for other components.

Reviewer: Removed text and abstracted. I think the paragraphs prior to the images help explain the flow below.

> ![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button when no selections have been made yet.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-no-selections-select-all.png =836x*)

Reviewer: Originally this was the path where buttons wouldn't show, but the problem is the footer will grow and shrink constantly as someone selects/deselects option. So to make it more consistent, it doesn't hide/show, it just stays put. I think clear selection can do nothing since it's a clear of selections.

> Additionally, “clear selected” will wipe out the selections and revert the SuperSelect to its defined default state.

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, “Clear selected” will wipe out the selections and revert the SuperSelect to its default state.
```

Reviewer: Updated this to say "deselected state" instead of "default."

![Flow showing the behavior of the clear selected button and how it reverts the SuperSelect's state to the default one](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-clear-selected.png =836x*)

> ##### Single and multiple variant footer with custom content

Reviewer 4: This could probably be simplified to:
```suggestion
##### Footer with custom content
```

In either of the two variants, you are able to fill the footer with custom content. This is helpful when wanting to mimic the footer but still customize its contents.

![Showing the footer with custom content inside.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-multiple-footer-custom-content.png =836x*) 

#### CustomContent

> If enabled, yielded content will occupy this space.

Reviewer 4: +1

> If enabled, yielded content will occupy this space.

Reviewer: Yup, updating yielded to custom content (to align with everything else).

![Showing the afterOptions slot with custom content](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-after-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

## List

### Positioning

> Lists can be positioned to the left, center or right of the trigger, and above or below the trigger to fit more appropriately within the UI. This defaults to the bottom left with collision detection.

Reviewer 4: Is center position a PowerSelect thing? It feels like an odd choice.

Reviewer: It is part of the power select by default which is why we are keeping it. Checked with engineering on this.

> Lists can be positioned to the left, center or right of the trigger, and above or below the trigger to fit more appropriately within the UI. This defaults to the bottom left with collision detection.

Reviewer 4: "This defaults to the bottom left with collision detection." This is a little unclear to me. Do you mean the default is set to bottom left and that collision detection is also available? Or that if collision detection is set than the position is set to the bottom left?

Reviewer: Updated verbiage to say:
"... Bottom left positioning with collision detection is the default state."

> ![Showing the different list positions (left, center and right + top and bottom)](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-positioning.png =836x*)

Author: @majedelass The examples in the included image would only apply with `matchTriggerWidth` set to false. (The default value is true & most consumers would likely leave it unchanged.)

Reviewer: I'll add text to explain this. Thanks for the clarity.

### Width

#### Match the trigger

> Default behavior where the list's width matches the trigger's.

Author: ```suggestion
Default behavior where the list’s width matches the trigger’s.
```

> Default behavior where the list's width matches the trigger's.

Reviewer 3: I'll build on this, generally we refer to this as "By default....", so:
```suggestion
By default the width of the list matches the width of the trigger.
```

Reviewer 4: +1, but added a comma :)

![Showing the list's width matching the trigger's](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-matching.png =504x*)

#### Auto width

> If the list width is set to auto, it will size to the longest list item text string.

Reviewer 4: This read a little odd, so I tried something else. It's not perfect, though. 
```suggestion
If the list width is set to auto, it will expand to be the size of the longest list item.
```

Reviewer: I think this explains it well, I don't want to over think it :)

![Showing the list's auto width, resizing to the longest list item](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-auto.png =630x*)

## ListItem

> ### Types

Reviewer 4: Could this be more explicit, something like "ListItem Types"?

Reviewer: Updating to do just that.

There are four types of ListItems, two of which are variant specific.
- `Checkmark` is used for single selections within a list. This is only allowed within the single variant. 

> - `Checkbox` is used to deliniate to the user that multiple selections within the list is permited. This is only allowed within the multiple variant.

Author: ```suggestion
- `Checkbox` is used to clarify to the user that multiple selections are permitted. This is only allowed within the multiple variant.
```

> - `Title` is used to group ListItems together and help visually organize categories or sections.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `Title` is used to group ListItems together and help visually organize groups.
```

> - `Separator` is used to create a visual separator between sections or categories.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `Separator` is used to create a visual separation between groups.
```

![Showing the different list types as described above](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-item-types.png =399x*)

### Groups

> List items can visually be grouped by adding a title and a separator. If a group is present last in the list, a sperator is not necessary to reduce visual redundancies.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
ListItems can be grouped visually by adding a title and a separator. The last group in the list doesn't require a separator. 
```

## Usage

### When to use

- When the list of options is large and search is required to help filter the list.
- When complex, structured content is required to be displayed within the options.

### When not to use

> - To display a list of links (or buttons) in a menu, consider the [HDS Dropdown](/components/dropdown) component instead.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- To display a list of links (or buttons) in a menu, consider the [Dropdown](/components/dropdown) component instead.
```

> - When a simple select is needed for a form, consider the [HDS Select](/components/form/select) form component.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- When a simple select is needed for a form, consider the [Select](/components/form/select) form component.
```

- As a means to filter an array of objects within a data set; e.g., when presented in a tabular format or list. Instead, consider other [filtering patterns](/patterns/filter-patterns).

## Components

### Single

Selection is limited to a single option item.

![Single selection example with list open](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-variant-text.png =504x*)

### Multiple

Multiple options can be selected.

![Multiple selection example with list open](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-multiple-variant.png =504x*)

> ## Toggle value states

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Trigger value states
```

> ## Trigger value states

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Toggle value states
```

!!!

#### Search

If enabled, search allows the user to filter results based on a query.

![Search enabled before the list in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-before-options-search.png =836x*)

#### CustomContent

If enabled, custom content will occupy this space.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-before-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

!!! Dont

We recommend against placing heavy UI elements in custom content as it can draw attention away from the list options and will only be visible when the menu is open. Consider placing such content outside the list relative to the trigger for better visibility.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-dont-visually-heavy.png =836x*)

!!!

### AfterOptions

> AfterOptions allows for either an HDS standardized footer or custom content to be displayed after the options list. The footer has additional functionality in the Multiple component compared to the Single.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
AfterOptions allows for either a standardized footer or custom content to be displayed after the options list. The footer has additional functionality in the Multiple component compared to the Single.
```

![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button when no selections have been made yet.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-no-selections-select-all.png)

The “Clear selected” button clears all selections and reverts the Super Select to its default/deselected state. This button is hidden if no options are selected.

![Flow showing the behavior of the clear selected button and how it reverts the Super Select's state to the default one](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-clear-selected.png)

##### Footer with custom content

The footer can contain custom content instead of the default content. This is helpful in maintaining the standard appearance of the footer container while allowing for custom usage.

![Showing the footer with custom content inside.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-multiple-footer-custom-content.png =836x*) 

#### CustomContent

If enabled, custom content will occupy this space.

![Showing the afterOptions slot with custom content](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-after-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

## List

### Positioning

> Lists can be positioned to the left or right, as well as above or below the trigger as necessary to fit within the UI. These options are only available when `matchTriggerWidth` is set to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lists can be positioned to the left or right, as well as above or below the trigger as necessary to fit within the UI. These options are only available when `matchTriggerWidth` is set to `false`. This effects the ember component only.
```

![Showing the different list positions (left, right + top and bottom)](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-positioning.png =836x*)

> ### Width

Reviewer 5: Should we provide examples of these use cases (width/auto-width/max-width) in the "how to use" section?

Reviewer: I believe this would be a question for @KristinLBradley?

Author: I can. I had considered these to be less commonly needed options so hadn't included examples originally.

I'll see if I can come with some useful examples though.

Author: I was seeing some issues as I was adding examples that I'll investigate...

Author: Fixed issues I was seeing in component branch and added an example on "Limiting width" to "How to use" section.

By default, the width of the list matches the trigger width.

![Showing the list's width matching the trigger's](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-matching.png)

#### Auto width

If the list width is set to “auto,” it will match the width of the longest list item. This means it may be either narrower or wider than the trigger width accordingly. A `max-width` can also be defined for the list.

![Showing the list's auto width, resizing to the longest list item](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-auto.png)

## ListItem Types

> There are four types of ListItems, two of which are variant-specific.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are four types of ListItems, two of which are component-specific.
```

- `Checkmark` is used in the Single component to indicate a selection has been made.
- `Checkbox` is used in the Multiple component to indicate that more than one option can be selected.
- `Title` is used to group ListItems together and help visually organize groups.
- `Separator` is used to create a visual separation between groups.

![Showing the different list types](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-item-types.png)

## Groups

ListItems can be grouped visually by adding a title and a separator. The last group in the list doesn’t require a separator.

> ![Groups of list items represented in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-group-list-items.png =836x*)

Reviewer 5: The label in the image says `seperator` not `separator`.

Reviewer: Good catch, will update.

## Required and optional

For complex forms, required fields should be indicated. This is the most explicit and transparent method to ensure users don’t have to make assumptions. Read more about best practices for [marking required fields in forms](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/required-fields/).

![Showing required next to the label for the Super Select](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-required.png )

For shorter, simpler forms (e.g., login/signup and feedback requests), indicate optional fields instead.

![Showing optional next to the label for the Super Select](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-optional.png )

## Error validation

For error validation recommendations, refer to the [Form patterns](/patterns/form-patterns?tab=validation) documentation.

## Content

For general content recommendations, refer to the [Primitives](/components/form/primitives) documentation.

### Options list

> - Keep option content clear and concise; avoid full sentences.
> - Avoid repeating the same word at the beginning of list options.
> - Order the options in a logical way based on the use case. For example:
>   - default or most commonly selected options first
>   - alphabetically
>   - numerically

Reviewer 5: Second-level list items need 4 spaces, not 2, or they will not be rendered as one would expect:
<img width="586" alt="screenshot_3729" src="https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/assets/686239/3e4a47ce-f87a-4359-a188-edb651f3974b">

```suggestion
- Keep option content clear and concise; avoid full sentences.
- Avoid repeating the same word at the beginning of list options.
- Order the options in a logical way based on the use case. For example:
    - default or most commonly selected options first
    - alphabetically
    - numerically
```

## Usage

### When to use

- When the list of options is large and search is required to help filter the list.
- When list items are displayed in groups.
- When complex, structured content is required to be displayed within the options.

### When not to use

- To display a list of links (or buttons) in a menu, consider the [HDS Dropdown](/components/dropdown) component instead.
- When a simple select is needed for a form, consider the [HDS Select](/components/form/select) form component.
- As a means to filter an array of objects within a data set; e.g., when presented in a tabular format or list. Instead, consider other [filtering patterns](/patterns/filter-patterns).

## Components

### Single

Selection is limited to a single option item.

![Single selection example with list open](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-variant-text.png =504x*)

### Multiple

Multiple options can be selected.

![Multiple selection example with list open](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-multiple-variant.png =504x*)

> ## Trigger value states

Reviewer 3: We might want to discuss this as a team, but something that @didoo brought up in our work for the RichTooltip was avoiding the use of "trigger" because it may elicit a response from those with PTSD. We've opted to use toggle instead. I'm not sure of the data behind this, but it probably warrants a larger discussion. Non-blocker as there are probably other instances of this across the website.

Reviewer: I believe we also use "toggle" for the dropdown. I'm all good with changing this for better empathetic language.

!!!

#### Search

If enabled, search allows the user to filter results based on a query.

![Search enabled before the list in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-before-options-search.png =836x*)

#### CustomContent

If enabled, custom content will occupy this space.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-before-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

!!! Dont

We recommend against placing heavy UI elements in custom content as it can draw attention away from the list options and will only be visible when the menu is open. Consider placing such content outside the list relative to the trigger for better visibility.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-dont-visually-heavy.png =836x*)

!!!

### AfterOptions

> AfterOptions allows for either an HDS standardized footer or custom content to be displayed after the options list. The footer has additional functionality in the Multiple variant than the Single.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AfterOptions allows for either an HDS standardized footer or custom content to be displayed after the options list. The footer has additional functionality in the Multiple variant compared to the Single.
```

#### Footer

By default, the footer displays below the options list and contains content and/or buttons which provide additional context or functions related to the options.

##### Single

> The footer for the Single component includes a total count, which is customizable to fit the context.

Reviewer 3: Here you use "Single component" but elsewhere you use "Single variant", would probably be good to align on a single consistent term. I'll try to catch more of these as a go through

Reviewer: It should be single component. I thought I'd caught this but ill do another scrub through.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-variant-footer-with-counter.png)

##### Multiple

> The footer for the Multiple component includes buttons to modify the options and a counter of the number of options selected out of the total.

Reviewer 3: Should this be "count" instead? As it's referring to a thing, rather than an action. TBH I'm not really sure 🤔

```suggestion
The footer for the Multiple component includes buttons to modify the options and a count of the number of options selected out of the total.
```

Reviewer: I think you're right actually, ill upadte.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-multiple-variant-footer.png)

> The “Show selected” button displays only the selected options in the list. When activated, it toggles to “Show all.”

Reviewer 3: [nit] Maybe these words should be swapped?

```suggestion
The “Show selected” button displays only the selected options in the list. When toggled, the text changes to “Show all.”
```

Reviewer: Agreed.

![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button and how it toggles the list to only display selected list items](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-select-all.png)

> If “Show selected” is used when no options have been selected, a message will appear notifying the user.

Reviewer 3: [also nit]

```suggestion
If “Show selected” is toggled when no options have been selected, a message will appear notifying the user.
```

Reviewer: Agreed.

![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button when no selections have been made yet.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-no-selections-select-all.png)

The “Clear selected” button clears all selections and reverts the Super Select to its default/deselected state. This button is hidden if no options are selected.

![Flow showing the behavior of the clear selected button and how it reverts the Super Select's state to the default one](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-clear-selected.png)

##### Footer with custom content

The footer can contain custom content instead of the default content. This is helpful in maintaining the standard appearance of the footer container while allowing for custom usage.

![Showing the footer with custom content inside.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-multiple-footer-custom-content.png =836x*) 

#### CustomContent

If enabled, custom content will occupy this space.

![Showing the afterOptions slot with custom content](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-after-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

## List

### Positioning

> Lists can be positioned to the left or right, as well as above or below the trigger as necessary to fit within the UI. These options are only available when `matchTriggerWidth` is set to `false`.

Reviewer 3: [nit] Might want to clarify that this is in the Ember component only.

![Showing the different list positions (left, right + top and bottom)](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-positioning.png =836x*)

### Width

By default, the width of the list matches the trigger width.

![Showing the list's width matching the trigger's](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-matching.png)

#### Auto width

> If the list width is set to “auto,” it will match the width of the longest list item. This means it may be either narrower or wider than the trigger width accordingly. A `max-width` can also be defined for the list.

Reviewer 3: [suggestion] What do you think of this? Seems to read a bit better to me

```suggestion
If the list width is set to “auto" it will match the width of the longest list item, which may result in the list being narrower or wider than the trigger width. A `max-width` can also be defined for the list.
```

Reviewer: Agreed.

![Showing the list's auto width, resizing to the longest list item](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-auto.png)

## ListItem Types

> There are four types of ListItems, two of which are variant-specific.

Reviewer 3: Should this be "variant-specific" or "component-specific"?

Reviewer: Component specific.

## Usage

### When to use

- When the list of options is large and search is required to help filter the list.
- When selecting more than one option is necessary.

> - When list items are displayed in groups.

Author: HTML select also includes grouping via the [`optgroup` element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/optgroup) so this one isn't much of a reason to use SuperSelect I think...

Reviewer: Maybe reword this to say something like:
```suggestion
- When list items are displayed in groups that are visually consistent with our UI.
```

Author: Still not positive on the above. @heatherlarsen and @andgen404 do you have any other ideas around the wording?

Reviewer 4: The `dropdown` also supports this, so it should be removed. When possible, we want to document things that help differentiate from other similar components.

Author: Removed this line. Thanks for weighing in.

![Groups of list items represented in both Single and Multiple components](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-group-list-items.png =836x*)

## Required and optional

For complex forms, required fields should be indicated. This is the most explicit and transparent method to ensure users don’t have to make assumptions. Read more about best practices for [marking required fields in forms](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/required-fields/).

![Showing required next to the label for the Super Select](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-required.png )

For shorter, simpler forms (e.g., login/signup and feedback requests), indicate optional fields instead.

![Showing optional next to the label for the Super Select](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-optional.png )

## Error validation

For error validation recommendations, refer to the [Form patterns](/patterns/form-patterns?tab=validation) documentation.

## Content

For general content recommendations, refer to the [Primitives](/components/form/primitives) documentation.

### Options list

> - We recommend keeping option content clear and concise; avoid full sentences.

Author: ```suggestion
- Keep option content clear and concise; avoid full sentences.
```

> - Avoid repeating the same word at the beginning of a set of options.

Author: For this one, I'm not clear what it means. Does it mean, don't use the same word to begin each option?

Reviewer: Yes. Maybe we should just say:
```suggestion
- Avoid repeating the same word at the beginning of list options.
```

Author: Thanks

## Usage

### When to use

- When the list of options is large and search is required to help filter the list.

> - When multiple selections are possible.

Reviewer 3: [suggestion] This might read a bit more clearly
```suggestion
- When selecting more than one option is necessary.
```

> - When selecting more than one option is necessary.

Author: The native HTML select supports multiple selection so we may want to rethink this one a bit.

You could argue that the SuperSelect provides a better or more consistent user interface and/or visual style than HDS Select since it contains an HTML select under the hood...

See: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/select#multiple

Thoughts? @heatherlarsen @andgen404

Reviewer: I think we can remove this.

Author: @majedelass I can delete for you if that's ok.

- When list items are displayed in groups.

> - When you require complex structured content to be displayed within the list (and trigger).

Reviewer 3: I _think_ we try to stay away from saying "you" and try to a bit more generic, but would love other opinions here. This isn't 100% right, but maybe moving in the right direction.
```suggestion
- When complex structured content is required to display the options within the list.
```

Author: I think this one needs a bit more thought. I'll look at it...

Author: Going to make this:
"- When complex, structured content is required to be displayed within the options."

(Feel free to suggest further changes for finessing)

### When not to use

- To display a list of links (or buttons) in a menu, consider the [HDS Dropdown](/components/dropdown) component instead.
- When a simple select is needed for a form, consider the [HDS Select](/components/form/select) form element.
- As a means to filter an array of objects within a data set; e.g., when presented in a tabular format or list. Instead, consider other [filtering patterns](/patterns/filter-patterns).

## Components

### Single

> Selection is limited to a single list item with structured content.

Author: @majedelass Maybe remove "with structured content" since to me it implies that it has to contain structured content?

Also I think it would be clearer to refer to "option" or "option" item vs. "list item" (to match terminology for HTML select and option elements and to make it clearer that users are selecting among options)

Author: Let me know if you disagree about option vs. "list item" btw, maybe I'm overthinking it...

Reviewer: We changed to this so that we encourage folks to use structured content - using simple text strings then should use the select component.

I do agree with your recommendation to change list item to option to be consistent:

```suggestion
Selection is limited to a single option item with structured content.
```

Author: Will make this update locally.

![Single selection example with list open](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-variant-text.png =504x*)

### Multiple

> Multiple selections can be made within the list.

Author: Change to "Multiple options can be selected."?

Reviewer: Agreed:

```suggestion
Multiple options can be selected.
```

Placeholder text can be added to the trigger to provide the user additional helpful context. However this information should not be required for them carry out a task.

![Showing placeholder text inside of the trigger, still indicating no selection is made, but with some additional guidance](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-trigger-placeholder-text.png)

**Filled**

When one or more values are selected, the trigger is populated with the selected value(s). One or more values can be pre-selected before user interaction, as needed.

![Showing preselected options in both a single and multiple variant. This helps show something has been preselected previously and the user can update their options](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-trigger-filled.png)

## Before and after options

The before and after options are areas above and below the list, independent from the list of options. Predefined components (like search) or custom content can occupy these spaces.

### BeforeOptions

BeforeOptions allows for either a search field or custom content to be displayed before the options list. Applicable to both Single and Multiple components.

!!! Warning

> Currently, the Multiple component only supports search in the trigger and is considered an accessibility issue (nested interactive). This is something we are working to improve in collaboration with the PowerSelect team.

Reviewer 3: Maybe consider swapping the order here, however as I'm writing this I don't think this is actually what you're referring to. Grain of salt here, but this first sentence was hard to read.
```suggestion
Currently, only the Multiple component supports search in the trigger which is considered an accessibility issue (nested interactive). This is something we are working to improve in collaboration with the PowerSelect team.
```

Author: I'm going to think through this one a bit more...

Author: Ok I overhauled this and think I've managed to make it much clearer

"Currently, the Multiple component includes search within an area of the trigger instead of displaying it in the beforeOptions. This causes a nested interaction which is an accessibility violation. We are in the process of working with the Ember Power Select maintainers to resolve this issue and make it the same as in the Single component."

!!!

#### Search

If enabled, search allows the user to filter results based on a query.

![Search enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-before-options-search.png =836x*)

#### CustomContent

If enabled, custom content will occupy this space.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-before-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

!!! Dont

> We recommend against placing heavy UI elements in custom content as it can draw attention away from the list options and will only be visible when the menu is open. Consider placing them in outside the list relative to the trigger for better visibility.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We recommend against placing heavy UI elements in custom content as it can draw attention away from the list options and will only be visible when the menu is open. Consider placing them outside the list relative to the trigger for better visibility.
```

![Custom content enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-dont-visually-heavy.png =836x*)

!!!

### AfterOptions

AfterOptions allows for either an HDS standardized footer or custom content to be displayed after the options list. Applicable to both Single and Multiple variants, although the footer has additional functionality in the Multiple variant.

#### Footer

By default, the footer displays below the list and contains content and/or buttons (depending on the variant) that provide additional context (or functions) to the list options.

##### Single

The footer shows a total count, which is customizable to fit the context.

![Custom content enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-variant-footer-with-counter.png)

##### Multiple

> In the multiple select variant, the `afterOptions` and `footer` display buttons to expedite the deselection process and optionally a counter (selected / total).

Author: RE: "expedite the deselection process" This sounds really klunky to me... 

I would explain more simply what the buttons do.

Reviewer: Left this paragraph as a summary because the next paragraphs explain what those buttons do.

Author: How about "modify selections" at least vs. "expedite the deselection process"? @jorytindall any opinions?

Reviewer 3: This is a tricky one, maybe something like:

> In the multiple select variant, the `afterOptions` and `footer` display buttons to modify the list of options and optionally a counter (selected / total).

WDYT?

Author: Going to make this:

"In the Multiple select component, the `afterOptions` and `footer` display buttons modify the list of options and display a counter (selected / total)."

(Feel free to suggest further edits.)

Author: Ok I think I have something better now. I simplified it to follow the description for the footer in the Single component:

"The footer displays buttons to modify the list of options and a counter of the selected total options."

![Custom content enabled before the list in both single and multiple variants](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-multiple-variant-footer.png)

> “Show selected” will change the list to display only selected list items while toggling the label of the button to “Show all.”

Reviewer 3: [nit] Maybe this should be stylized as such
```suggestion
`Show selected` will change the list to display only selected list items while toggling the label of the button to “Show all.”
```

Reviewer 3: If this is accepted, it will effect other text below 👇. I won't comment them all for the sake of simplicity.

Author: It's meant to represent the text of the button not an argument/piece of code so it shouldn't be styled as code.

![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button and how it toggles the list to only display selected list items](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-select-all.png)

> If “Show selected” is used when no selections have been made, a message will appear to let the user know.

Reviewer 3: Maybe consider this:
```suggestion
If “Show selected” is used when no options have been selected, a message will communicate this empty state to the user.
```

Author: Other suggested edits are good but not crazy about "communicate this empty state". I'll think about this one...

Author: Going to change it just to the below for now and then we can re-think later if needed:

"If “Show selected” is used when no options have been selected, a message will appear to let the user know."

("empty state" seems too jargony and technical in this context so I left it simpler.)

![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button when no selections have been made yet.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-no-selections-select-all.png)

> Additionally, “Clear selected” will wipe out the selections and revert the Super Select to its deselected state. This button is hidden if there are no selections.

Reviewer 3: Maybe consider this (could be either default or deselected, both kind of make sense in the context):
```suggestion
Additionally, `Clear selected` will revert the Super Select to its default/deselected state. This button is hidden if no options are selected.
```

Author: Will make the other changes locally.

![Flow showing the behavior of the clear selected button and how it reverts the Super Select's state to the default one](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-clear-selected.png)

##### Footer with custom content

In either of the two variants, you are able to fill the footer with custom content. This is helpful when wanting to mimic the footer but still customize its contents.

![Showing the footer with custom content inside.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-multiple-footer-custom-content.png =836x*) 

#### CustomContent

If enabled, custom content will occupy this space.

![Showing the afterOptions slot with custom content](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-after-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

## List

### Positioning

> Lists can be positioned to the left, center or right of the trigger, and above or below the trigger to fit more appropriately within the UI. These options are only available when `matchTriggerWidth` is set to `false`.

Author: I agree. I don't think it's very useful.

> Lists can be positioned to the left, center or right of the trigger, and above or below the trigger to fit more appropriately within the UI. These options are only available when `matchTriggerWidth` is set to `false`.

Author: I'll look at changing this to remove "center"...

> Lists can be positioned to the left, center or right of the trigger, and above or below the trigger to fit more appropriately within the UI. These options are only available when `matchTriggerWidth` is set to `false`.

Author: We'll need an updated image too so I'll leave the "center" text for now so we can edit text and the image around the same time (so we don't forget).

> Lists can be positioned to the left, center or right of the trigger, and above or below the trigger to fit more appropriately within the UI. These options are only available when `matchTriggerWidth` is set to `false`.

Author: @majedelass I'd like to update this to remove mention of the "center" layout but want to coordinate with you so the example images can be updated also.

![Showing the different list positions (left, center and right + top and bottom)](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-positioning.png =836x*)

### Width

> #### Match the trigger

Reviewer 3: You _might_ be able to trim out this headline and just say:

```markdown
### Width

By default, the width...
```
Since this is the default experience.

By default, the width of the list matches the width of the trigger.

![Showing the list's width matching the trigger's](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-matching.png)

> #### Auto width

Reviewer 3: 🧂 

Maybe it's just me, but I'm having a little bit of trouble understand what the difference is between "matching the trigger" and "auto width". Though, I'm reading through this and thinking "when would I want to use this?" so maybe it's about differentiating the use-cases instead.

Author: In going through current usage of ember power-select, I found only one case of matchesTriggerWidth being set to false. Although I do think it would be useful in cases where the width of the trigger itself is fairly narrow while the options contain longer content which would be forced to wrap to too many lines if their width matched the trigger.

Author: I'm making updates to hopefully clarify the meaning.

If the list width is set to auto, it will expand to be the size of the longest list item. A `max-width` can be defined for the list.

![Showing the list's auto width, resizing to the longest list item](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-auto.png)

## ListItem Types

There are four types of ListItems, two of which are variant specific.

> - `Checkmark` is used in the single select to indicate a selection has been made.

Reviewer 3: [Question]

Should the same grammar be used in both of these bullets?

- Select select
- Multiple select

vs.

- Single selection
- Multiple selection

> - `Checkbox` is used in the multiple selection to indicate the more than one option can be selected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `Checkbox` is used in the multiple selection to indicate that more than one option can be selected.
```

> - `Checkbox` is used in the multi-select; indicates that multiple selections can be made.

Author: Should we refer to the component names here, "Single" and "Multiple" vs. saying "single select" and "multi-select"?

@majedelass @jorytindall @heatherlarsen

Reviewer 3: Yeah, that seems like it should be consistent. Also seems like this could be consolidated a little bit:
- `Checkmark` is used in the single select to indicate a selection has been made.
- `Checkbox` is used in the multiple selection to indicate the more than one option can be selected.

WDYT?

Reviewer: Agreed. 

I unfortunately have no time to make these updates.

Author: Will update.

> 
> - `Checkmark` is used in a single select; indicates that a selection has been made.
> - `Checkbox` is used in the multi-select; indicates that multiple selections can be made.

Reviewer: Agreed with thoughts from both:

```suggestion

- `Checkmark` is used in the single select to indicate a selection has been made.
- `Checkbox` is used in the multiple selection to indicate the more than one option can be selected.
```

- `Title` is used to group ListItems together and help visually organize groups.
- `Separator` is used to create a visual separation between groups.

> ![Showing the different list types as described above](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-item-types.png)

Reviewer 3: [SUPER DUPER NIT]

The text gets rendered as alt text here so using directional language might not make sense depending on the user context or if they are a non-sighted user.

Author: Btw, I think this is very valid so not a "super, duper" nit. ;)

![Showing the different list positions (left, center and right + top and bottom)](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-positioning.png =836x*)

### Width

#### Match the trigger

By default, the width of the list matches the width of the trigger.

![Showing the list's width matching the trigger's](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-matching.png)

#### Auto width

If the list width is set to auto, it will expand to be the size of the longest list item.

![Showing the list's auto width, resizing to the longest list item](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-list-width-auto.png)

## ListItem Types

There are four types of ListItems, two of which are variant specific.

- `Checkbox` is used to clarify to the user that multiple selections are permitted. This is only allowed within the multiple variant.
- `Checkbox` is used to delineate to the user that multiple selections within the list is permitted. This is only allowed within the multiple variant.
- `Title` is used to group ListItems together and help visually organize groups.
- `Separator` is used to create a visual separation between groups.

> 

Reviewer 2: how are the two checkbox types different?

Author: typo

Should be:
checkmark = Single
checkbox = Multiple

Reviewer: Oops, ill fix this, this was accidental when I was updating things. Thanks for the catch.

![Multiple selection example with list open](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-multiple-variant.png =504x*)

## Trigger default states

### Empty

> The default option, where the trigger is empty, showing nothing selected.

Reviewer: @KristinLBradley Is this accurate that this option is the default one for our trigger's behavior?

Author: Yes, although we could change this to set our own default if desired.

<img width="348" alt="image" src="https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/assets/108769823/effc3338-8515-43eb-bbe9-9d8cbdcc7171">

Reviewer: I think this as a default works.

The footer appends below the list displaying content and/or buttons (depending on the variant) that provide additional context (or functions) to the list options.

##### Single variant

> The footer defaults to visible and shows a counter (selected count / total count). Either of the two texts are togglable and customizable to fit context.

Reviewer 6: The selected count will always be 1 for the single select variant. What I currently have is displaying the number of results (e.g. 3 results)

Reviewer: Oops, yeah we should remove selected count. My apologies and good catch.

![Flow showing the behavior of the show selected button and how it toggles the list to only display selected list items](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-select-all.png =836x*)

Additionally, “clear selected” will wipe out the selections and revert the SuperSelect to its defined default state.

![Flow showing the behavior of the clear selected button and how it reverts the SuperSelect's state to the default one](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-flow-clear-selected.png =836x*)

##### Single and multiple variant footer with custom content
In either of the two variants, you are able to fill the footer with custom content. This is helpful when wanting to mimic the footer but still customize its contents.

![Showing the footer with custom content inside.](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-single-multiple-footer-custom-content.png =836x*) 

#### CustomContent
If enabled, yielded content will occupy this space.

![Showing the afterOptions slot with custom content](/assets/components/form/super-select/super-select-after-options-custom-content.png =836x*)

## List

### Positioning

> Lists can be positioned to the left, center or right of the trigger, and above or below the trigger to fit more appropriately within the UI. This defaults to the bottom left with collision detection.

Reviewer: @KristinLBradley are we doing center as well? I looked at our dropdown list and it seems as though that doesn't have a center position (only left and right). Let me know so I can update this if we are not including center as well.

Author: I had added an example after I initially pushed the examples showing left & right alignment and I see Alex has added additional examples.

Here's for the Single variant:
<img width="1092" alt="image" src="https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/assets/108769823/f518f93f-439f-492c-856c-f0ad27ee356a">

Reviewer: Thanks alex said the same, keeping in docs, thanks for clarity.
